# HARVESTING ELECTRIC ENERGY
Designed and Developed by:
- Rishab Arora
- Mehar Dheer

OPG WORLD SCHOOL

## PROJECT IDEA
Implementing Piezoelectric Technology for harvesting energy. Our website is made to promote and emphasize the use of technology and generate electricity that can light up the whole city.

## TECH STACK
- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript ES6
- JQuery
- DialogFlow
- Bootstrap
- FontAwesome

## FEATURES
- Responsive Site
- Integrated Chatbot using Google’s Dialog Flow
- Animated Slider using Bootstrap, CSS and SVGs
- Reusable header and footer using JS
- Integrated Google Forms for contact
- Deployed using Github Pages

## IMAGES 
Royalty free images used from freepics.com and pixabay.com

## DEPLOYMENT
https://grobo021.github.io/piezoelectric/

## THEORY
<p>
Piezoelectric Effect is the ability of certain materials to generate an electric charge in response to 
applied mechanical stress. The word Piezoelectric is derived from the Greek piezein, which means to 
squeeze or pss, and piezo, which is Greek for “push”.

They have been successfully used in various applications, such as in medical, aerospace, nuclear 
instrumentation, and as a tilt sensor in consumer electronics or a pssure sensor in the touchpads of 
mobile phones. In the automotive industry, piezoelectric elements are used to monitor combustion when 
developing internal combustion engines. The sensors are either directly mounted into additional holes into 
the cylinder head or the spark/glow plug is equipped with a built-in miniature piezoelectric sensor.
</p>

## PROJECT IDEA AND IMPLEMENTATION
<p>
Now, talking about implementing this effect at global and public level. One can imagine the large pssure 
exerted on roads by vehicles running on it. What if that pssure can be brought in use so as to overcome 
the current energy demand? This can be done by introducing piezoelectric effect in
construction of roads and bridges. During the construction, piezoelectric materials along with 
Piezoelectric transducers acting as DC nanogenerators are placed under the tiles strong enough to bear the 
pssure applied by the vehicles. There is also a motor placed inside it which access the high
voltage generated by the plates due to pssure and use it not only to light up the street lights but also 
can act as a great source of energy which can be widely used further. This idea can also be implemented on 
the dance floors of the clubs, benches of schools, chairs of any public places and
even on the beds for small power generation.

The motive is to obtain pollution–free energy source and to utilize the energy being wasted.

Piezoelectric roads can be made in India but up till now there has been no implementation of such concept.

Some of the foreign companies are doing trials but didn't get success so far. But the output of this 
concept is huge and massive which can help in overcoming the energy crisis.
</p>

## CONCLUSION
<p>
Piezoelectricity can be very useful to satisfy the increasing demand of the people and an interesting fact 
about this is that it is renewable and eco-friendly.
</p>
